Friday, January 22nd Post - Divide and Conquer
I said to myself that I would make sure to post something here every Friday in order to keep track of my progress. Well, it's not actually Friday anymore, although I did start writing this on Friday. But this week I had a bit of trouble figuring out what to write here, mostly because there's not that much to report... This week I was working on a lot of other projects, so I didn't really have time, unfortunately, to focus on this one. But today is the day I allocated to thinking about it, so I guess I better get cracking! 
Okay... 
So far, I still haven't done much work other than planning. However, what I would like to get done in the next few days is a comprehensive plan that outlines all the things that I would like to include in the game and the ideas I have so far to complete them. What I mean by that, is get a very rough outline of the plans. They are by no means set in stone right now, and in fact, I hope that they'll be able to change for the better as time progresses and I learn more about Cluny. 
And that's the other thing. Planning is all good, but what I'd really like to begin is research right now. If I can get some sources and go through them I think it would be beneficial to the project over all. But the problem is getting around to finding relevent sources... Guess I should set aside a day for some serious research. Wednesday maybe? 
Okay. But first things first. My thoughts are kind of jumping all over the place. Anyway , as they taught us in my programming class, one of the keys to problem solving is the strategy of "divide and conquer". So going forward I'd like to make this my strategy. I'd like to divide my game into a series of sections which I, or some other poor chump can tackle all at once. This, I think, will make it easier for everyone. And then it should be relatively simple to put things all together into one big game. 
For example, at the beginning we can consider the secular part of the game completely seperately from the monastic part of the game. Although from the secular world you can become a monk, for now, it is easier to consider how each portion will operate seperately. Thus, we can look at "how can we represent secular medieval society in a game?" seperately from 'how can we represent medieval monastic life?" Obviously both questions will have to be answered eventually, but for now we can take each one as it comes. We can do the same for men and woman. And then there are things like "random events", which we can consider seperatelly from "daily actions.". To begin with, I will code the daily events which occur recularly, and then later on add in random events. 
So that's the plan so far. I am hoping to add a discussion repository or something early next week, so that way everyone can discuss all the various problems that have to be solved sooner rather than later. I'd love to hear people's ideas on each issue. I'll post what needs to be figured out and together I'm sure we'll figure something out. 
I don't know if I'm making any sense today... So maybe I'll just end this now.  
