Initial Choices: Mechanics and Style

There are many many different games in this world, and rarely are any two of them exactly alike. There are platformers, like the original Mario games, or top-down adventures games like Final Fantasy. Or there are top-down, turnbased simulations like Civilization or real-time strategy games like Warcraft or Age of Empires. Some games have amazing graphics and realistic physics, others are simpler, and some even just use text. There are so many different types and styles of games that it can become a little overwhelming. 
Confronted with so many possibilities, how can one possibly choose a style for their own game? When I first began considering how to make a game about monks, I wasn't really sure from what angle I wanted to approach it.
Initially, I was thinking of a 'choose your own' adventure game using Twine, but it seemed awfully boring and simple to me. How could I make it even more EXCITING?
For a while I was toying with the possibility of an RPG style game, just because they are so popular. When I think about 'games', for some reason it is RPGS that I think of first. There are even lots of game engines that support this kind of gameplay that makes it easier to create. But although RPGs are popular, it just wasn't the style of game that I wanted to make. I didn't want to shoe-horn the life of monks into something it wasn't. I didn't want lots of exploration and adventure. I didn't want the focus to be on combat and items. What would monks be fighting anyway? (demons maybe? That was a posibility.)  It might work if you played as a knight, but I think there are better ways to illustrate medieval life. 
So I decided not to jump on the rpg bandwagon. But then, what kind of game did I want? What kind of gameplay did I want? 
I tried to think of the game I wanted to make. For lack of a better word, I wanted it to feel more...."slice of life", I guess. You wake up, do the things that monks would do, do this, do that, go to sleep, repeat the next day, until you die. "Like a dating sim!" I thought. Once this popped into my head I couldn't get rid of the idea, because the idea of monks and dating sims being at all related was pretty amusing to me. Basically, in a dating sim, all you do is go to school everyday where you have a few limited choices (where to eat lunch, for example, or where to go during third period, and so forth), and talk to people, and this mostly repeats until you've managed to woo the sparkling bishounen hero or kawaii moe girl of your choice. 
This seemed easier to make, plus it was more of the gameplay I was going for. So I thought, I'll make a dating sim! Except without the dating. But then... wouldn't a dating sim without the dating just be a simulation? 
So I thought of other games. I could be like the Sims. Parts of it could be like Crusader Kings II or Civilization. Reciting the psalms could be like Guitar Hero. Lately I'm thinking it will just be a simple text-based adventure, something like Zork or Eric the Unready (this strange game I played for some as a kid).
Ultimately though, I don't think this  game should be just 'like this game' or 'like that game'. It's good to draw upon games for inspiriation, but ultimately you shouldn't constrain yourself by trying to imitate something else. So my game will be like my game. I will try and consider how things worked in the middle ages and try and translate that into some kind of game. 
As for the style... It'll probably be a turn-based (each day you do certain actions) game. You go through each day, accumalate sins or merits, and just repeat till you die. As for the details, I'll hash it out more as I go.
