
Initial Choices: How to Make a Game

It seems like making a video game would be very difficult, however, there are actually a great number of options avaliable for those of us who do not have a degree in game design. Although this is supposed to make things easier, conversly, it just served to stress me out because I didn't know what to use.
Should I use Twine? Some pre-made game-engine? Or maybe I could code it myself. But would I use html, python, java, c++? 
Initially, I was going to use Twine, because when I took Shawn Graham's history and video games course last semester that's what I used. I was more or less familiar with the system and had experience making games with it before. But at the same time... I've never found Twine's language super intuitive. There was a lot of things I wanted to use in Twine that it didn't have (or I didn't know how to use) - things like lists or objects. The one advantage of Twine is that it easily takes text and puts it nicely in your browser, and you can add images and change the style fairly well. I think if I was better at html and could easily make things look nice, I would use Twine. But I'm not that good at html....
In addition, they recently updated Twine to the 2.0 version. This is both good and bad. It's bad because I'm unfamiliar with the new style, and some of the stuff I used to do in the old Twine doesn't work the same. But it's also good, because I think that one of the versions allows you to code more in javascript, which I'm more familiar with, and theoretically you could accomplish more high-level coding with. I don't really know what it all can do though, because I haven't figured out really how it works. My javascript is also a bit rusty, and I don't really relish having to relearn both javascript and all its little quirks in Twine. 
However, Twine still is a posibility. You can make some good history games in Twine: for example, here's one I made last semester. https://www.dropbox.com/s/fychcwq12lfb2xf/Between%20the%20Cross%20and%20the%20Longhouse.html?dl=0

Another possibility would be to code it in python or some other programing language. The advantage to this is that I think I would be able to make the code more complicated, because I am more familiar with this language. There are a few things I would like to add to the game that I don't know how to do in Twine, but I can easily solve in Python. If I wanted to keep track of all the sins you comitted, for example, it would be much easier in Python. I used a lot of Python last semester and now whenever I try to come up with codes I tend to think in Python. So the underlying mechanics of the game I think would be easier to program. But as for appearance....  Well, at my current level I don't know how to make an interactive, visual game by myself. I can do snippets - I got a book on html5 from the library over Christmas and experimented a bit. I got things to move around, stop at walls, not scroll off the screen, all in your browser. And there are certainly resources that help you make games in Python or other languages. But this adds a whole new level of considerations. Art, sprites, events, animation frames... Someday, I do want to learn these, but when I've tried in the past I've never gotten very far. Would I have time to learn these things before the end of the semester? I don't know. I might be able to figure out some very basic graphics. 
But to start with, at least, I'm more inclined to forget about the graphics and focus more on the operations. For now that means it'll work only in the command line. I think this is probably the best way to start, at least, and maybe I'll figure out how to get better graphics later on. 
But first, I would like to hear your thoughts. (I'm addressing my classmates in particular, but if some other random person is reading this, you're welcome to contribute.) How do you think I should make this game? What kind of things are you looking for in the final product? Out of the Peasant Simulator and the Twine came I posted earlier, is there a style you'd prefer? Which do you think is better suited to my purposes? Tell me what you think~~. 
