Challenges

This last week was a bit challenging because I was lacking in motivation. However I stayed determined and tried to code a little bit each day. So it was slow and painful, but the code has grown since last week, and that’s what’s important. I hope. 
Anyway I thought I’d write here about some of the challenges I’ve been facing in the course of making this game. 
First of all is the obvious statement: it’s an enormously daunting project. It’s big, and it’s also open-ended. How much is enough? I guess I’m the kind of person who says  “It’s never enough!” and pressures myself to produce something really big and extraordinary. But is that even possible? It’s been kinda challenging approaching a project of this scope without any guidelines or limitations. Coding in itself is difficult, but it’s one thing to come up with code that solves a problem and quite another to come up with the problems as well. If that makes sense. 

Another challenge I’ve had is coming up with numbers. Generally I’ve been playing fast and loose with numbers. I say, “Okay, your sin should decrease here”. But by how much? “I dunno, maybe... 5?” Or in another case, I want your health to decrease. Again, I just pull a number from a hat. It’s very unscientific and it worries me a little. In professional games, balancing is a big issue. Like in Splatoon, I’m sure they had big time developers focusing just on what stats each weapon should have so they all balance each other out. And even they don’t get it completely right – and that’s why people complained “kraken OP plz nerf” and so forth. XD Even big time games like Splatoon or Super Smash Bros (...my brother plays a lot of Nintendo...) are constantly fine tuning their stats. So I feel if there are some issues with the numbers, it should be revealed through playing through the game and beta-testing. But it’s hard to account for testing everything, and it’s difficult to say how things would turn out in a real game situation that goes on for a really long time. So I’m not sure how to test this and how to fine-tune the numbers so that they work better. And I don’t really have a method for choosing numbers other than thinking five sounds kinda nice. 

 Um... and what else? Focus I guess. I kinda don’t know what I’m doing, in both my life and this game. Will it ever be enough? Man, I don’t know. :| 
